# Unsupervised-ML-Political-Survey
Using a KMeans classifier, I determine three labels for over 1500 respondents to a Pew political survey. The resulting labels group the respondents into categories that more accurately predict sentiment to questions on policy and ideology than grouping by political part.
#This project is part a series I am doing in trying to understand how sentiment on key issues rather than simple party preference can be used to understand where public opinion is. That is, rather than using % of Dems are favorable/unfavorable to policy x, find if there are ways to cluster people to get a sense of a type of person and how that person will approach policy x. The model will use KMeans clustering in order to identify three clusters of people. These clusters will be based upon how people feel about Trump himself as well as the direction of the country and party leadership in congress. I will use data from Pew Research Institute from March 2019. I begin by isolating just the responses to the four questions I will use to determine the clusters. I then have to map answers given as strings to intergers in order to cluster the results. I then use a KMeans classifier to determine three clusters (three because I want to explore the viability of liberal, convservative, and actual indendents). Interesting, there are several instances where the model gets a purer result than simply breaking people by party preference. After looking at the results, my sense is that there are people who do not identify as Dem or GOP but who will likely vote for one of the two major parties because of where they align on issues. The trick is being able to speak beyond a party's base.

#This project will utilize unsupervised machine learning to develop labels from an unlabeled dataset. 
